docs: add RNA technical overview content (#27)
armory/docs-cdaas: content/en/remote-network-agent/overview.md

---
title: Remote Network Agent Overview
linktitle: Overview
weight: 1
categories: ["Remote Network Agent", "Features", "Concepts"]
tags: ["Remote Network Agent"]
description: >
  a logicless network relay that enables Armory CD-as-a-Service to integrate with privately networked resources such as Jenkins, Prometheus, Kubernetes clusters, etc.
---

> ## Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What a Remote Network Agent is
```
Kind of a lame suggestions, but my caffeine hasn't kicked in yet.

Avoid using "Overview" or "Introduction" as the sole word in the heading ([content guide](https://docs.armory.io/contribute/create/guides/content-guide/#structure)).  I'm as guilty of using a single word as the next writer.  "Overview" is bad for SEO.

> Armory's Remote Network Agent (RNA) is a simple, lightweight, and reliable agent that resides within your privately networked Kubernetes cluster. It facilitates the orchestration of deployments by providing CD-as-a-Service. RNA enables seamless communication with resources within your private network, empowering CD-as-a-Service to enable use cases such as executing Prometheus queries or initiating Jenkins jobs from within the cluster. RNA supports both `amd64` and `arm64` based architectures, ensuring compatibility across a range of systems.

Reviewer 2: i think "privately" could be removed, as we don't make any restrictions about the cluster's location.

Author: I'm gonna play telephone on this and forward this feedback to Parth, since he wrote this bit.

> Armory's Remote Network Agent (RNA) is a simple, lightweight, and reliable agent that resides within your privately networked Kubernetes cluster. It facilitates the orchestration of deployments by providing CD-as-a-Service. RNA enables seamless communication with resources within your private network, empowering CD-as-a-Service to enable use cases such as executing Prometheus queries or initiating Jenkins jobs from within the cluster. RNA supports both `amd64` and `arm64` based architectures, ensuring compatibility across a range of systems.

Reviewer: ```
It facilitates the orchestration of deployments by providing CD-as-a-Service.
```
Um... you forgot to finish that sentence... 

The paragraph has great info. I think we just need to simplify the sentence structure a bit to make the ideas clearer to less experienced audience (and to non-native English speakers). Thinking on this...

> The RNA is installed with a logical name, allowing for easy identification of a cluster. This name is then used as an `account` when defining `targets` in your deployment configuration. Armory recommends installing a single agent per Kubernetes cluster to maintain simplicity and consistency.

Reviewer 2: how does it correlate with number of replicas within the cluster? do you mean by "single agent per cluster" a single deployment with two replicas or did we change the number of replicas?

Author: I'm gonna play telephone on this and forward this feedback to Parth, since he wrote this bit.

Author: ![image](https://github.com/armory/docs-cdaas/assets/711726/1fab217c-f04d-4d8e-ae1b-56a93dafe2ec)

To get started with CD-as-a-Service or when adding a new deployment target without an existing RNA, you need to install the RNA. Once installed, there is no need for further interaction with the RNA. CD-as-a-Service takes care of the rest, seamlessly handling your deployments.

> Please refer to the [Architecture](/architecture) page for more details on how RNA fits in with the rest of the CD-as-a-Service core components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Architecture]({{< ref "architecture" >}}) page for more details on how the RNA fits in with the rest of the CD-as-a-Service core components.
```

No need to use "Please" ([Use simple and direct language](https://docs.armory.io/contribute/create/guides/docs-style-guide/#use-simple-and-direct-language))

> ## Core Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Core features
```

Headings use sentence case  [Documentation formatting standards](https://docs.armory.io/contribute/create/guides/docs-style-guide/#documentation-formatting-standards)

> ### Kubernetes Cluster Mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Kubernetes cluster mode
```

> When installed into a Kubernetes cluster, RNA can register the cluster as a deployable target from within CD-as-a-Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you install an RNA into your Kubernetes cluster, the RNA registers the cluster as a deployment target. 
```

[Use active voice rather than passive voice ](https://docs.armory.io/contribute/create/guides/docs-style-guide/#use-active-voice)

> RNA is installed with a service account and its credentials are used by Armory CD-as-a-Service when orchestrating kubernetes deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CD-as-a-Service uses the RNA's ServiceAccount credentials when orchestrating Kubernetes deployments.
```

> See the [Installation Guide](/remote-network-agent/install) to get started and [Production Configuration and Use](/remote-network-agent/production-configuration-and-use) for advanced configuration, such as configuring the service account permissions or opting out of this mode.

Reviewer: Neither of these pages exists in this PR.  
If you had used the `ref` shortcode, the Hugo build would have failed  :grimacing:

> ### Relaying Traffic to Private Networks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Relaying traffic to private networks
```

> When you install the agent configured with Armory credentials into your private network(s). The agent connects to Armory's Agent Hub registering the private network with an agent identifier.

Reviewer: Aside from some grammar/punctuation/wording issues... _Agent Hub_ hasn't been introduced to the reader. The Arch page refers to a "control plane" comprised of APIs.  We should use the same terms here.  OR introduce Agent Hub in the Arch page.

Agent Hub can route network traffic from internal authenticated Armory services to your privately networked 

> resources via a multi-target network relay that pipes data through encrypted gRPC tunnels to their destination through the remote network agent.

Reviewer: (The CD-as-a-Service control plane?)  routes network traffic from internal, authenticated Armory services to your privately networked resources via a multi-target network relay that pipes data through encrypted gRPC tunnels to the RNA, which forwards the data to its destination.

??

{{< centeredImage src="/images/cdaas/rna-arch.png" alt="CD-as-a-Service Remote Network Agent Architecture Diagram" caption="Remote Network Agent securely integrates your on-prem tools with CD-as-a-Service." >}}

> In Armory's secure private network, Agent Hub is an [(RFC 1929)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1929) SOCKS5 compliant proxy [(RFC 1928)](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1928.html) that knows how to execute socks proxy requests through a bi-directional gRPC tunnel that is established by an agent.

Reviewer: Same comment as above about Agent Hub.

Also bi-directional -> bidirectional

A couple of things that make Agent Hub plus Remote Network Agent (RNA) special:
1. They don't require an open port in your network when relaying network requests.
1. They are multi-target, so you can install it into multiple networks.

> 1. They integrate with Armory's OIDC authorization server to authenticate and authorize requests to target agents.

Reviewer: This actually could be a separate section, placed after the "what a remote network agent is" overview section

## Remote Network Agent benefits

* Doesn't require an open port in your network to relay network requests
*  Is multi-target, so you can install it into multiple networks.
*  Integrates with Armory's OIDC authorization server to authenticate and authorize requests to deployment targets

Thoughts?

### Relaying Traffic to Private Networks

When you install the agent configured with Armory credentials into your private network(s). The agent connects to Armory's Agent Hub registering the private network with an agent identifier.

Agent Hub can route network traffic from internal authenticated Armory services to your privately networked 
resources via a multi-target network relay that pipes data through encrypted gRPC tunnels to their destination through the remote network agent.

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center; padding-left: 20px; padding-right: 25px; padding-bottom: 15px">
  <div style="display: flex; flex-flow: column; text-align: center">
    <div>
      <img src="/images/cdaas/rna-arch.png" alt="CD-as-a-Service Remote Network Agent Architecture Diagram" style="max-width: 1200px; width: 100%">
    </div>
    <b>Remote Network Agent securely integrates your on-prem tools with CD-as-a-Service.</b>
  </div>

> </div>

Author: [Screencast from 07-12-2023 12:18:41 PM.webm](https://github.com/armory/docs-cdaas/assets/711726/5f70c2eb-a97e-42a6-a80a-fb236afba5f3)

~I'm gonna try move this to a short code, I suspect it might be causing the build to fail.~

~Which is weird because it works fine locally see attached video.~
